Our safety procedures are not arbitrary; they are based on well-established regulations designed to prevent injury and save lives.
In the United States, the primary governing body for workplace safety is OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
OSHA creates and enforces the laws that every employer must follow.
One of OSHA's most important regulations for anyone working with machinery is the Control of Hazardous Energy standard, more commonly
known as Lockout/Tagout or LOTO.
This procedure is a life-saver.
It's a systematic process that ensures a piece of equipment is completely de-energized and cannot be accidentally turned back on
while someone is performing maintenance or repairs.
It involves shutting down the equipment, isolating it from its energy source—like flipping a breaker—and then placing a personal lock
This guarantees that only the person who placed the lock can re-energize the equipment.
While OSHA provides the law, another organization, the National Fire Protection Association, or NFPA, provides the detailed 'how-to.' The NFPA
It provides the detailed methodology for things like performing an arc flash risk assessment, which helps determine the level of
danger from a potential electrical explosion.
It also specifies the safety boundaries to set up around live equipment and provides the criteria for selecting the correct
PPE for a given task.
Together, OSHA's laws and NFPA's standards form the foundation of our electrical safety program.